>> Francesca Sadikin: In our exercise,
we had the easy example of working with
existing code because
the requirements were given to us.
It's much easier to refactor and
do all these codes when we actually
know what that code is supposed to do.
But in a real company, that's actually
the hard part [LAUGH] is like you
come into the code and you're like,
what does this code do?
What's going on?
And so,
there are little techniques to help
you ramp up on what that
code is supposed to do.
As you saw, I use a debugger to,
like, resolve a problem.
You can also use the debugger
to help you understand from your
entry point what that little piece of code
does and its relationship to other code.
As you saw writing test.
So writing test against that system, like
giving it lots of different parameters
trying to understand Understand what
it's doing is also very helpful.
And then just a recap of Chester since
fence, which is a way of saying don't
change code unless you really understand
what it's doing, [LAUGH] right?
Don't just delete code unless you
a 100% sure you know what it's doing.
>> Francesca Sadikin: Okay, clear
debugging process, whether you're fixing
a code, a bug or you're just trying
to understand what's going on.
It's important to have a clear
process to help you unblock yourself.
If you don't have a process as
unlike when you get frustrated and
you just start like, let me try a bunch
of different things, like I do.
Let me show you something
that has been helpful for
me to try to remember when I'm panicking.
So, first,
you gotta have clear intentions, right?
If you're in the mental state of extreme,
like frustration,
and you don't even have a hypothesis yet.
You're just trying a bunch of things.
It's just time to take a break,
you won't be able
to understand your code
in that mental state.
I usually like to walk
through the code line by line
to check every single assumption
that I making on every line.
I'm like, okay, it says it's doing this,
I expect it's going to
be here at this point.
Using console logs.
But if you're using
more than four to five,
it's time to use the debugger again
to try to figure out what's going on.
Number four is actually my biggest tip.
This sounds really, really dumb,
but if you're facing problem, and
you can't figure out where
the hell this is coming from.
I just start commenting out code,
just I'm like, comment out code.
Did the bug disappear?
No.
Keep commenting out more, and more, and
more code until the problem disappears.
And I'm like, ha, there it is.
And I start reintroducing
code slowly to try and
figure out the general area
of where the problem is.
And then I use the assumptions,
console logs, debuggers,
then in that more specific area
to understand what's going on.
Number 5 is to use
essentially a rubber ducky,
whether you're talking to another person,
your pet, a toy.
Just somehow the act of
explaining it out verbally helps
you catch maybe assumptions
you are making and
gives you little insights to
figure out what to do next.
Ask for help, and if you don't have anyone
to help you, none of this is working.
Time to take a mental break,
walk, naps, eat and try again.
>> Francesca Sadikin: Okay, so
that was the wrap up of our
super technical portion.
I have these recommended resources.
So as I mentioned before,
Clean Code is just a standard engineering
handbook that most engineers
find really useful.
It goes into Clean Code tactics in detail.
Practical object oriented design and
agile primer using Ruby by Sandy Metz.
So, if you are interested in
learning the solid principles.
So this is another, like, Clean Code thing
where these principles I find actually
helps you architect code like architect
systems in a clean and extendable way.
I really like her book because
she explains it very, very well.
It is in Ruby, but
Ruby is a very readable language, and
I actually apply the same learnings
in every language that I work in,
not just object-oriented languages.